The #MeToo campaign, which began as a hashtag on Twitter in 2017, has exposed some big names in India over the last few weeks.  In 2017, eminent Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein was accused by more than 70 women of sexual harassment.  In India, a later year, as actress Tanusree Dutta came up with allegations of harassment and sexual abuse against Nana Patekar, the Pandora's Box has opened.  Many well-known comedians, journalists, actors have been named and shamed in social media as allegations of sexual misconduct are still coming out.  Many brave women have come out with their stories about harassment at workplace at the hands of the powerful people.  In fact, the MeToo campaign has exposed the gender biased, claustrophobic structure of Indian workplace.  As of now, Director Vikash Bahl, Actor Alok Nath, Union Minister of State Affairs MJ Akbar, Director Subhas Ghai, Actor Rajat Kapoor, Author Chetan Bhagat and various other names have come up in the open.  Some of them have apologized in social media whereas some have taken the legal recourse.  Whether all the allegations are right or wrong, time will say but no doubt, there is an immediate need to review the workplace reality in India.  In India, men and habitual sexual offenders or criminals are not limited to the entertainment segment rather the very nascent start up sector has also experienced and acknowledged such instances.  Be it Scoopwhoop co-founder Mahesh Murthy or OML co-founder Vijay Nair, the list is definitely getting bigger day by day.  There have been various instances in India where workplace other than entertainment has witnessed sexual harassment allegations.  In August this year, Air India stripped its general manager of in-flight services after a flight attendant made allegations of sexual harassment against him.  TVF or The Viral Fever CEO Arunabh Kumar had to resign last year after an anonymous sexual harassment complaint was made on a blogging platform.  In 2015, Tech giant Wipro faced such a situation, when an employee in London alleged that she was being discriminated against in terms of salary and her manager forced her to have an alleged affair. In February 2015, RK Pachauri, the erstwhile Director General of Tata Energy Research Institute was accused of sexually harassing a researcher at the organization since September 2013. Novasoft Technologies came across such an incident in 2015 when newly appointed Vice President Gayathri Balaswamy resigned and lodged a criminal complaint against two employees of the company within few months of joining. In June 2015, Greenpeace India came into media limelight when an ex-staffer of the company went public with allegations of rape and sexual harassment by her colleagues. The case of Tarun Tejpal, senior journalist of Tehelka cannot be forgotten either.  In 2013, he was accused of molesting a young female employee of the company in an elevator in a Goa hotel. Let's not forget that the Indian startup system is pretty much in the growing stage, already the third largest in the world.  Thus gender biased approach or environment not conducive to women can be extremely detrimental to the interests of the start-ups in general.  At present, women comprise pivotal space in the workforce of MNCs, corporates and other organizations.  The MeToo allegations indicate that all is not well in the private sectors and that needs immediate attention without any delay. In the present circumstances, the obvious focus is on the punitive measures with regard to sexual harassment in the workplace in India.  For effective and speedy disposal of complaints, the procedural Vishakha guidelines can be termed to be effective to some extent.  In fact, there are specific laws under IPC to tackle incidents of sexual harassments at workplace. Before 1997, complaints were made under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 and Section 509 which called for punishing individual or individuals for using word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman.  Later, the Parliament of India enacted Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, considered to be a step forward to tackle cases of such nature and magnitude. In reality, various companies and organizations do not comply with the new law.  Internal complaints committee and local complaints committee are considered to be pivotal in the whole process which is often not formed.  According to law, if an employer fails to constitute an internal complaints committee or does not comply with the provisions, a monetary penalty of up to Rs 50,000 is prescribed.  A reputation of the offence even invites double punishment and or deregistration of the entity or business. There is no denying the fact that one shouldn't be allowed to take undue advantage of MeToo campaign.  Shaming someone for the sake of personal interest is something that has to be avoided and that is why a proper investigation is necessary.  Side by side, slut shaming is also nothing which shouldn't be allowed.  Rather the employees or peer should wait for proper outcome of the investigation. Truly, there is an urgent need for organisations and top management to conduct gender sensitization workshops for its employees at regular intervals towards creating awareness and consciousness with regard to sexual harassment.  The concerned employees should familiarise themselves with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment Act. Apart from that, ample care has to be taken in training of the ICC members so that such platforms can be effective is ensuring efficient and effective complaint handling at an organisational level.  The whole idea of MeToo campaign is not at all to discriminate employees on the basis of gender.  The objective is to effectively and sensitively deal with sexual harassment complaints.  A safe working environment is always conducive to both organisational growth as well as in the personal front. Many people have asked validity of social media claims.  But no doubt, serious allegations made in social media cannot be ignored just because no case has been filed.  India has got the quality human resource and active participation of women at workplace can do wonders in bigger interests of the society.  And let's not forget, men can also be victims and in near future, many names can come up with MeToo campaign in near future. 