The flagbearer of #MeToo movement in India, Tanushree Dutta, has already taken the legal route to fight out her battle with Nana Patekar and filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri. While veteran actor Nana Patekar has denied all the allegations against him, filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri has finally confessed to the molestation charges weeks after he slapped her with a notice of referring him while accusing him of sexually harassing her during the shoot of the 2005 film Chocolate: Deep Dark Secrets.Tanushree Dutta's counsel, Nitin Satpute told a leading daily that Tanushree Dutta never pressed any charges against Agnihotri at the press conference. According to the reports, the director had asked Tanushree to strip off her clothes and dance to give cues to an actor, all this, behind the camera. Satpute further told the daily that it was the director who confessed to the crimes in a 10-page notice that he sent to Tanushree where he stated that "The director was none other than me." He further stated that since the director has himself owned up to the crime and they will be submitting an official complaint against him at the Oshiwara police station requesting the cops to press molestation charges against him. Along with Nana Patekar, Tanushree has accused three more of sexual harassment and now have even filed a case against Rakhi Sawant who tried to threaten Dutta and said "Tujhse to main niptungi...Ghar me ghus ke marungi." (I will deal with you and beat you inside your house). Talking about the same, Satpute, also a member of the Bhim Army stated that they have submitted a complaint letter at the Oshiwara Police station and requested the cops to register the case under SC/ST Atrocity Act. He also stated that they (Bhim Army) will file an FIR against Sawant. Reiterating her decade-old harassment allegations against Nana Patekar, Tanushree said earlier that such cases are not taken seriously in India but she is confident that she will get justice. She said, "I am hoping I will get justice. But not figured out what kind of justice I will get. There are rules and regulations, things are tweaked and twisted and there is corruption so justice gets delayed."